                 PLACES TO VISIT IN ZELIANG AREA/PEREN DISTRICT, NAGALAND.

    1. POILWA VILLAGE
Poilwa village is about 52 KM approx from Kohima via khonoma-Dzulakie.
Popularly known for its sheep farm, the only sheep farm in Nagaland. 
Also known for Hausum resort and picnic spots in and around the hamlets of Heunambenam, Helagim etc. 
   

    2. BENREU VILLAGE
Located about 65 KM approx from kohima via Khonoma-Dzulakie,-Poilwa..
With its serene natural beauty, panoramic views and mythological and spiritual connection, Benreu village is known for the Mt. Pauna Tourist Village which was established and inaugurated in the year 2006. 
Also, Mt. Pauna, the third highest mountain peak in Nagaland is a trekker’s delight.. Two spirit guides known as Siperai and Mireuding were believed to reside at Mt. Pauna in the olden times who served as the guardian and protector of Mt. Pauana and Benreu village. 
The ideal time to visit for trekking is late October to January when the weather is pleasant for a clear sky and rhododendron blossom in March/April.
Another ideal time to visit the village are during the two major festivals like the Milei-Ngyi festival which is annually held on the 10th & 11th of March and Kwakpwa Ngyi/Lamsim Ngyi on the 30th & 31st of October.

    3. PEDI VILLAGE
Pedi is an offshoot village of Benreu village about 70-75 KM from Kohima approx via Khonoma-Dzulakie-Poilwa-Benreu.
Known for the standing British Inspection Bungalow. There is also a small mountain peak known as Hepuilwa/Hecingpeikaria which has a 45 minute-walk trekking trail to the summit.


    4. PELETKIE VILLAGE 
Located just a few KM away from Peren town, it is approx about 110 KM from Kohima via Khonoma-Dzulakie-Poilwa-Benreu 
Popularly known for Cosmos blossom festival in the month of October.. 
Another interesting feature of Peletkie village is their practice of traditional salt making.

Besides, the old Inspection Bungalow constructed by the British is also still standing till date at Peletkie village.

    5. PEREN VILLAGE
Peren village is located just a few KM away from Peren town about 120 KM from Kohima via Khonoma-Dzulakie-Poilwa-Benreu-Peletkie-Peren town.

Popularly known for its vibrant celebration of the Hega Festival from 10 to 14 February every year. The fifth day of the week-long Hega festival which coincidentally falls on the modern day Valentine’s day i.e 14th February usually marks the culmination of the festival wherein men folk along with young girls dressed in their best traditional attires sing and dance to a dance form known as KWAKSUI with much joy, enthusiasm and gaiety. 
A nearby mountain peak known as Herapaitu is also a trekker’s delight.

    6.  PUILWA VILLAGE
Located about 25-30 KM from Peren town, Puilwa village is a significant historical village. 

The village still maintains and preserves a series of caves where the revolutionary Rani Gaidinliu, a Naga spiritual and political leader took refuge while eluding the British forces in 1932 during her fight against the British rule.
The village is also home to the caves where A. Z Phizo, a prominent Naga leader used as hide-out when pursued by the Indian army reportedly in August, 1956 on their way to London via Myanmar. 

    7. NZAUNA VILLAGE
Nzauna is the southernmost part of Peren district and is about 124 KM approx frpm Peren town,

Mt. Kisa, a prominent mountain peak located at Nzauna village stands at altitude of 1325 meters above sea-level and offers a breathtaking view of the surrounding valley and hills and neighboring villages. The mountain also has a small lake called Kisa which adds tp the place’s scenic beauty. 
Tesuang – It is believed that a spirit guide known as Tesuang resides in a big tree near the village and and watch over and protect the village. Today, it continue to stand still as a living example of the village’s resilience, heritage and enduring traditions.